BLADEMASTER_POLICY "BLADEMASTER_POLICY"

Anyone seeking the Heron, as well as current Blademasters
should read the following.

1) If wishing to enter a Tourney Email your background, both
   character history and rped history, to
   dfblademasters@egroups.com. It is suggested but not required,
   that you submit a spar along with the background  as a small
   example of your emote fighting abilities.

2) There will never be more than ten Blademasters on the game.
   They are held to an activity level thus if they do go inactive,
   spots will open but ten is the maximum.

3) There will be no more than five Blademasters per guild and a
   maximum of eight Warders is built into this cap, to allow for
   diversity in the Heron.

4) No blademaster may have more than one prodigy. Thus, if you
   are asking a current Blademaster to prodigy you and he or she
   already has one, it  won't be allowed and you will be forced to
   seek the heron either through prodigying yourself to another Bm
   or by entering a tourney.

5) You may not have more than one Blademaster character. This
   rule does not apply to Blademaster book characters.

6) You may have a Blademaster and a Prodigy or a blademaster and
   a Respected but not all three nor two of any save Respected.

7) Channeler blademasters are strongly discouraged. While
   channelers may, if  their backgrounds are reasonable, participate
   in the tournament, they will be strongly  handicapped score-wise
   in an attempt to attain a heron-marked blade. This policy does
   not affect  the Respected ranking.

8) Randland's swordmasters are a male-dominated group ICly. In
   acknowledging this, like channelers, while females are welcome
   to participate in the tournament if their  backgrounds and
   training are reasonable, they will be strongly handicapped
   score-wise in  an attempt to attain a heron-marked blade. This
   be played by a non book character blademaster, the only
   circumstance under which someone may  have two characters with
   the heron marked blade. A book character blademaster gets the 
   sword, and the pretitle. They may not take on a prodigy, or
   otherwise sponsor  blademastery seekers or teach blademastery
   skills. In the event of the death of a book character in  any way
   for any reason, the heron marked sword must be taken out of play,
   either by being  returned to the guild armory, if appropriate,
   being lost to shadowspawn, or otherwise being  destroyed. Book
   Character players will not be offered the blademaster title on
   another alt in the event of the book character's death. Forsaken
   will be set to the rank "Unknown", the only Forsaken blademaster 
   currently alive is Sammael. Book characters, such as Galad and
   Gawyn, who should have the Respected or  Prodigy rankings ICly,
   will receive it. 

10) A Veteran blademaster may not take on a prodigy, or otherwise
    sponsor blademastery seekers or teach blademastery skills. In
    the event of the death of a Veteran  blademaster, the heron
    marked sword must be taken out of play, either by being returned
    to the  guild armory, if appropriate, being lost to shadowspawn,
    or otherwise being destroyed.  Veteran players will not be
    offered the blademaster title on another alt in the event of 
    their death. Moving veterans from "Veteran" to "Blademaster" or
    Unknown status will be handled  on a case by case basis by the
    committee, likely based on the activity of the veteran,  the
    status of the caps when the request is made, why they went
    inactive in the first place,  and possibly the submission of some
    spars.

11) The Death of Blademasters:  Please see the "Book Character"
    and "Veteran" sections regarding the death  of people with these
    ranks. Respected always have the option of transferring their
    title to another  character provided that the IC requirements for
    Respected are met. Blademaster and Unknown ranked individuals
    when killed by NPCs or in any  fashion other than a fair
    sword-to-sword combat, will be permitted to choose another alt, 
    including the rename, to receive their blademaster status,
    subject to background approval of the  committee, and the caps.
    If the blademaster does not wish another blademaster alt, their 
    spot remains open for the next tournament. The sword of the
    character who dies must be  taken out of play, either by being
    returned to the guild armory, if appropriate, being lost to 
    shadowspawn, or otherwise being destroyed. If a Blademaster or
    Unknown ranked individual is killed by fair  sword-to-sword
    combat, a log of the combat must be sent to the committee, along
    with the background and  IC training of the killer. The committee
    will then convene to determine the disposition of  the heron
    marked sword. Until a ruling is made the sword is to be
    considered out of play.  Either the killer will be granted the
    heron marked sword, or the combat will be treated the  same as
    any other blademaster death as described in the previous
    paragraph. This method of  attaining the heron marked sword is
    discouraged, and far from guaranteed. 

12) Powerforged blades: First, while they may be decorated
    differently, all powerforged blades are  identical in shape and
    size. Second, allocations on powerforged blades will remain the
    same for all  current blademasters. The awarding of power-wraught
    blades to future blademasters will be based on  whether the
    blademaster wants one, IC factors, and some random factor to be
    determined by the council. Codewise the only difference between
    powerforged and normal heron-marked  blades (with the exception
    of Lan's and Rand's which are treated differently for a variety
    of reasons), is that, to reflect the slightly better balance of
    a powerforged blade, they  have a slightly better average damage.
    The maximum damage and all other affects are the  same. 

See also: BLADEMASTER_JUDGING, BLADEMASTER_TOURNEY
#
