The following is a document containing all the important factors
about channeling that one may wish to keep in mind, while
roleplaying. Please note that these are book referenced facts and
have been simply compiled, in hopes that they will be read,
thought of and considered when one roleplays a character of this
nature.

Help proposal1: A summary of the Five Flows.
Help proposal2: An analysis of Saidin and Saidar, how they
contrast.
Help proposal3: Comparing male and female strengths.
Help proposal4: Analysis of weaving.
Help proposal5: The dangers of the One Power.


Conclusion: While the Power is something that only Robert Jordan
knows the ins and outs of, we can make many educated guesses in
hopes of roleplaying it properly. Above all these concepts and
rules though, is the need for common sense. If you, the player,
keep in mind the fact that you are not god, but a mortal with
merits and flaws, abilities and drawbacks, you will be able to rp
a very successful Channeler. It is always entertaining to play a
character who can kill anyone, do anything, but it will simply
lead to problems in a multi-user environment.
#
proposal1
     
The Five flows: Air, Water, Earth, Spirit and Fire are all
components of the One Power.

  Air: The most often used flow and one of the simplest. It is a
flow designed to manipulate tangible objects, by using the ever-
present air around us, hardening it into walls, wrapping it
around objects or people, creating platforms to walk upon,
whatever the case may be, Air on its own, is simply the
manipulation of the plain oxygen and Nitrogen mix we live and
breathe.

  Water: Unlike Air, this flow is not simply at hand at all
times. It is drawn from the moisture-laden air and from the
clouds in the sky or from bodies of nearby water but unlike Air,
it is not always surrounding us and easily accessible. For
example, if one wished to use Water and Fire to create a
lightning bolt or storm, one must set the conditions for using
the Water element by moving clouds into the proper position and
then weaving the lightning, using the cloud's water content as
the catalyst for the electricity. Otherwise, Water like Air,
Spirit and Fire, is a flow predominantly used in healing.

  Spirit: This is perhaps the most unusual and complex element of
the One Power. Largely used for weaves of creation or for the
mind, this flow allows the Channeler to create illusions, use
Compulsion, change the shape and state of animate and inanimate
objects, to create something out of nothing. Examples of
predominantly Spirit-woven weaves are dreaming traps, light-woven
invisibility, Shielding, severing and Aes Sedai bonding.

  Fire: Much like Air and Water, this flow is around us at all
times. It is presumed, though not confirmed by any known source,
that simply applying the laws of physics will explain much of how
these flows work together. For example, if you increase the pace
of atoms in air, you create heat. If you do this at a rapid
enough rate, you will create a tangible weave of fire. Therefore,
using Air and Fire, you are able to not only set the conditions
for a fireball, but are able to use the air to shape the fire and
direct it to its intended target. Otherwise, this component of
the One Power, is simple, much like air and Water.

  Earth: Like fire, this flow is simply elements of the ground we
stand upon or bits of the air, drawn out to form hardened pieces
of rock or dirt. It is shown to us in The Great Hunt, from
Egwene's vague description of her Ore-finding talent, that Earth
is perhaps more complex than fire, Air or Water, in that it
allows one to delve into the earth and search for elements lying
therein, such as metals in her case. How this would be done, is
simply speculation, but perhaps this is an example of the more
magical, fictional, side of the One Power, rather than the
previously illustrated scientific part.

  Having described the simple elements of the One Power in their
component parts, the next step is to determine how they work
together. Singly, the flows will do little but their obvious
purpose, like for example, using simple flows of Air as a wrap to
halt the motion of an object or to lift it, or otherwise
manipulate it. Working in tangent however, is an entirely
different story. Weaves woven of Air, Water and Spirit for
example, has been the traditional method of Aes Sedai healing.
Using Spirit and combining that with Air and Water, you set the
conditions for the weave to heal by how you weave it and then you
simply allow it to run its intended course. 
#
proposal2

Saidin and Saidar: The two halves of the One Power are as
different as men and women, a direct corilation in fact. Saidin
is a male characterized power, a strong, unyielding, war-like
force that needs to be directed, not listened to. It is a weapon
of destruction or healing, but a weapon all the same,. Like
Saidar however, Saidin is still a sweet, intoxicating power. For
all of its war-like struggle for freedom from its holder, once
guided, Saidin is a powerful tool for good or evil. A quote from
the novels concerning holding Saidin: "That fight that told a man
he was alive." This is exactly what Saidin is. When going into
the Void, one pushes all emotion aside, in exchange for calmness
and serenity. Only then, is one able to dominate and control
Saidin and force it to submit to the will of the wielder. When
that person manages to control Saidin, they feel everything
sharper, smells, sight, hearing, taste, everything is amplified
quite significantly. Yet, there is a difference. Wrapped in the
void, one can not simply feel these enhancements and truly
understand them. It is best described as if everything was
clearer, yet as if you were riding in the back of someone else's
mind, an intimate observer but only an observer, feeling it
second hand, not the immediacy of total contact.
  Saidar, on the other hand, is quite different. Saidar is an
embracing of power, an opening up, an envelopping, immercing, in
the strength that is the female half of the True Source. Holding
Saidar is a submission to a sweet, glorious and addictive
superior power. Once submitting to this power, the wielder is in
total command of Saidar, yee, the threat of overdrawing the
Source is even moreso than wielders of Saidin. The sweet,
intoxicating, glory of Saidar can be so overwhelming if drawn in
vast amounts, that only an extreme will of iron, combined with
long years of wielding Saidar, can prevent the woman from simply
drawing the essence into her and burning herself out. This is why
Aes Sedai train their charges so agonizingly slow, for increasing
the pace of their training, also increases the chance of simply
cutting oneself off from the very glorious power they are trying
to draw more of. 
#
proposal3

Comparing male and female strengths: this has ever been a
contencious issue whenever male channelers contact wfemale ones.
Male channelers are almost invariably stronger than female
channelers on a one-on-one level. Whether simply blessed with the
ability to grasp more sheer volume of the One Power or whether
this is a characteristic difference between Saidin and Saidar, is
unknown, yet it is clearly stated that unless a very powerful
woman contacts a weaker male, the male will be stronger than the
woman. For example, women sent to shield Rand or many of the
other stronger false Dragons, would have been in the more
powerful ranks of the Aes Sedai. yet it is clearly written that
six of these Aes Sedai are not a match for one such False Dragon.
Having said that, your average male channeler who is perhaps less
than half the strength of Rand or Logain or any of the stronger
Forsaken, would only be able to handle two or three of these Aes
Sedai at the very most and most likely with a tremendous amount
of risk involved in the undertaking. 
  However, men cannot link together with other men unless they
have women to support the link. this has always been the
counterbalancing factor when  conflicts between male and female
channelers arise. Women are able to link together, to a daunting
number of thirteen, while men, unless they have a female to link
with, cannot link with a single other man. Thus, when women
approach men to gentle them or capture them, a link of such
numbers or at least something more than six or seven Aes Sedai,
is required to be assured of the capture and in overpowering the
man.
#
proposal4

Weaving: While much of this area of channeling lies in the realm
of fiction and assumed action, there are parts of the mechanics
of weaving, described in various places throughout the novels.
The main point that is brought up time and time again is one's
ability in a particular flow, amplifying the effectiveness of the
woven weave. For example, Elayne in book four, while journeying
to Tanchico, has an opportunity to observe a Windfinder at work
on the Seafolk vessel she is using to travel from Tear to
Tarabon. While Elayne could in theory, perform the weaves that
the Windfinder executed with such skill, she stated that she
could not possibly be able to affect a tenth of the weather the
Windfinder was able to. Elayne is perhaps one of the top ten
female Channelers living in the current world in terms of
potential and raw power, while the Windfinder was a great deal
weaker than the Daughter-heir. 
  This situation yields much information in
regards to the mechanics of channeling. Mainly, if a Channeler is
shown how to weave something and is given practice with weaving
the displayed weave, they not only become more adept in the
weave, their strength in the particular flow also increases.
While this may seem like the channeler may simply keep practicing
and becoming a super Channeler, this is not the case. Perhaps the
analogy of a muscle would be appropriate to describe this
concept. If one does not use their muscles, they atrophy and
weaken and shrink, to the point where one cannot perform tasks
one used to be able to do with ease. However, if one uses their
muscles often, exercises them, tests them and stretches them to
the limit, one becomes stronger until they have reached their
physiological limit.
  So it is with Weaving and perhaps, gives insight into why the
older Aes sedai and Wise Ones, are often a great deal more adept
in the arts of channeling, than the younger channelers, save of
course, the notable exceptions outlined in the books.
  One last point on Weaving. It is often stated that a channeler
is shaped by who he or she is taught by. For example, if a woman
is shown the fireball weave by her Aes sedai teacher, and said
teacher flings out her arm to release the fireball, that is
ingrained into how the weave is woven for the student. The
student will have to make the arm gesture to complete the weave
or otherwise, it will not run its proper course.
  This also shows why the Age of Legends produced so many
talented Channelers, with many diverse and complicated skills.
They were able to teach their students how to channel and what to
channel, without also passing on the flaws of the teacher to the
pupil. 
#
proposal5

Dangers of Channeling: Channeling is a very dangerous, very risky
process without any sort of formal training. Even Rand al'Thor,
the absolute cream of the crop where the One Power is concerned,
is lost and left floundering in regards to Saidin, until he is
able to cut Asmodean off from the Dark One and force the former
Forsaken to show him the pitfalls of the True Source. Before this
point, he ran the risk, every time he grasped Saidin, if he could
grasp it in the first place, of losing control of the battle with
Saidin and simply drawing too much power to handle without having
it burn his mind away. 
  What one must keep in mind in roleplay is simply this. Your
character must have formal training in the One Power before he or
she can do much beyond lighting a candle. Even if this
hypothetical character attempted to light the candle, half the
time they would fail to reach the One Power and the rest of the
time, they would not be able to focus the Power enough to perform
the designed task. Not only does one not know how to wield the
One Power without training, they simply do not know how to reach
it and if they were able to reach it, they are more apt to
destroy themselves than do anything useful.
#
