This is the Policy of Dragon's Fang. You are expected to know these
rules, no exceptions. These are guidelines everyone should follow,
yet they are not the only rules here. Not everything can be written,
so do not expect to get away with some things just because they are
not here. In the case of a broken policy, a trial will be held to hear
all sides before any decision is made. Any questions or concerns should
be brought to Council immortals or a Creator.

1. No multiplaying, ever.

2. You may not pass equipment from alt to alt by multiplaying, which
   includes one alt linkdead. Any dropped items are fair game for all.

3. Sexual harrassment will NOT be tolerated, nor will other forms of
   harrassment. The guilty party will be sitebanned.

4. Do not abuse bugs -- report them! Abuse earns a siteban.

5. Try to choose names that reflect Robert Jordan's world, not ones
   that are obviously unfit (ie: Sexy, WhiteWolf, DarthVader). The
   immortals have the right to require an online name change.

6. Book characters must be applied for by their respective Guildleader.
   If the character in question has no guild, then the application goes
   to a Creator.

7. A player may only play one book character.

8. Book characters cannot be killed -- though they can be hurt badly --
   without the express permission of the Immortal Council.

9. Do not drop link to avoid a fight.

10. All killings (PK and emote) and stillings/gentlings are IC. You are
    responsible for these whether the act was accidental or on purpose.

11. If you are killed ICly, your character is dead and loses his or her
    history. You must also rename. If you have a dispute as to the
    validity of the kill, by all means bring it up to a Council imm or
    your GL. The renaming will not happen until everything is clear.

12. You may not use an alt to avenge the death of your character.

13. Any information found OOCly is OOC. It may not be used in rp situations.

14. You may not use public channels (including gdt) to call for IC help.

15. All actions and communications are considered IC unless specified. For
    instance, you must note that a say is OOC for it not to be considered rp.

16. Avoid profanity or degrading terms on public channels. Excessive
    cursing will be muted.

17. Do not steal from Shopkeepers, and do not kill or steal from idle or
    linkdead players.

18. Do not push or otherwise manipulate aggressive or sick mobs into public
    areas. You will be demoted in levels if you do so.

19. Instruct is an IC only skill. Abuse of it will result in a loss of
    the skill, and a possible deletion.

20. Tooling and Crafting is IC. Any objects with profanity or non-WoT
    ideas will be taken and junked. Keep objects clean.

21. Channeling is considered OOC only when leveling and only weaves cast
    *directly* at a mob or weaves used in direct defense against mobs.
    All other channeling is IC (including Gate) at all times, even if
    you are in OOC mode.

22. Do not ask immortals for eq, skills, restores, or any other favors.
    This will only get you in trouble.

23. Rules for quests may differ from the Policy at the discretion of the
    immortal running the quest.

24. The mortal alts of immortals are also subject to these policies. Any
    conflict with them can be brought to the Council the same as any other
    player.


