The following is a document containing all the important factors
about channeling that one may wish to keep in mind, while
roleplaying. Please note that these are book referenced facts and
have been simply compiled, in hopes that they will be read,
thought of and considered when one roleplays a character of this
nature.

The Five flows: Air, Water, Earth, Spirit and Fire are all
components of the One Power.
  Air: The most often used flow and one of the simplest. It is a
flow designed to manipulate tangible objects, by using the ever-
present air around us, hardening it into walls, wrapping it
around objects or people, creating platforms to walk upon,
whatever the case may be, Air on its own, is simply the
manipulation of the plain oxygen and Nitrogen mix we live and
breathe.
  Water: Unlike Air, this flow is not simply at hand at all
times. It is drawn from the moisture-laden air and from the
clouds in the sky or from bodies of nearby water but unlike Air,
it is not always surrounding us and easily accessible. For
example, if one wished to use Water and Fire to create a
lightning bolt or storm, one must set the conditions for using
the Water element by moving clouds into the proper position and
then weaving the lightning, using the cloud's water content as
the catalyst for the electricity. Otherwise, Water like Air,
Spirit and Fire, is a flow predominantly used in healing.
  Spirit: This is perhaps the most unusual and complex element of
the One Power. Largely used for weaves of creation or for the
mind, this flow allows the Channeler to create illusions, use
Compulsion, change the shape and state of animate and inanimate
objects, to create something out of nothing. Examples of
predominantly Spirit-woven weaves are dreaming traps, light-woven
invisibility, Shielding, severing and Aes Sedai bonding.
  Fire: Much like Air and Water, this flow is around us at all
times. It is presumed, though not confirmed by any known source,
that simply applying the laws of physics will explain much of how
these flows work together. For example, if you increase the pace
of atoms in air, you create heat. If you do this at a rapid
enough rate, you will create a tangible weave of fire. Therefore,
using Air and Fire, you are able to not only set the conditions
for a fireball, but are able to use the air to shape the fire and
direct it to its intended target. Otherwise, this component of
the One Power, is simple, much like air and Water.
  Earth: Like fire, this flow is simply elements of the ground we
stand upon or bits of the air, drawn out to form hardened pieces
of rock or dirt. It is shown to us in The Great Hunt, from
Egwene's vague description of her Ore-finding talent, that Earth
is perhaps more complex than fire, Air or Water, in that it
allows one to delve into the earth and search for elements lying
therein, such as metals in her case. How this would be done, is
simply speculation, but perhaps this is an example of the more
magical, fictional, side of the One Power, rather than the
previously illustrated scientific part.

  Having described the simple elements of the One Power in their
component parts, the next step is to determine how they work
together. Singly, the flows will do little but their obvious
purpose, like for example, using simple flows of Air as a wrap to
halt the motion of an object or to lift it, or otherwise
manipulate it. Working in tangent however, is an entirely
different story. Weaves woven of Air, Water and Spirit for
example, has been the traditional method of Aes Sedai healing.
Using Spirit and combining that with Air and Water, you set the
conditions for the weave to heal by how you weave it and then you
simply allow it to run its intended course. 

Saidin and Saidar: The two halves of the One Power are as
different as men and women, a direct corilation in fact. Saidin
is a male characterized power, a strong, unyielding, war-like
force that needs to be directed, not listened to. It is a weapon
of destruction or healing, but a weapon all the same,. Like
Saidar however, Saidin is still a sweet, intoxicating power. For
all of its war-like struggle for freedom from its holder, once
guided, Saidin is a powerful tool for good or evil. A quote from
the novels concerning holding Saidin: "That fight that told a man
he was alive." This is exactly what Saidin is. When going into
the Void, one pushes all emotion aside, in exchange for calmness
and serenity. Only then, is one able to dominate and control
Saidin and force it to submit to the will of the wielder. When
that person manages to control Saidin, they feel everything
sharper, smells, sight, hearing, taste, everything is amplified
quite significantly. Yet, there is a difference. Wrapped in the
void, one can not simply feel these enhancements and truly
understand them. It is best described as if everything was
clearer, yet as if you were riding in the back of someone else's
mind, an intimate observer but only an observer, feeling it
second hand, not the immediacy of total contact.
  Saidar, on the other hand, is quite different. Saidar is an
embracing of power, an opening up, an envelopping, immercing, in
the strength that is the female half of the True Source. Holding
Saidar is a submission to a sweet, glorious and addictive
superior power. Once submitting to this power, the wielder is in
total command of Saidar, yee, the threat of overdrawing the
Source is even moreso than wielders of Saidin. The sweet,
intoxicating, glory of Saidar can be so overwhelming if drawn in
vast amounts, that only an extreme will of iron, combined with
long years of wielding Saidar, can prevent the woman from simply
drawing the essence into her and burning herself out. This is why
Aes Sedai train their charges so agonizingly slow, for increasing
the pace of their training, also increases the chance of simply
cutting oneself off from the very glorious power they are trying
to draw more of. 

Comparing male and female strengths: this has ever been a
contencious issue whenever male channelers contact wfemale ones.
Male channelers are almost invariably stronger than female
channelers on a one-on-one level. Whether simply blessed with the
ability to grasp more sheer volume of the One Power or whether
this is a characteristic difference between Saidin and Saidar, is
unknown, yet it is clearly stated that unless a very powerful
woman contacts a weaker male, the male will be stronger than the
woman. For example, women sent to shield Rand or many of the
other stronger false Dragons, would have been in the more
powerful ranks of the Aes Sedai. yet it is clearly written that
six of these Aes Sedai are not a match for one such False Dragon.
Having said that, your average male channeler who is perhaps less
than half the strength of Rand or Logain or any of the stronger
Forsaken, would only be able to handle two or three of these Aes
Sedai at the very most and most likely with a tremendous amount
of risk involved in the undertaking. 
  However, men cannot link together with other men unless they
have women to support the link. this has always been the
counterbalancing factor when  conflicts between male and female
channelers arise. Women are able to link together, to a daunting
number of thirteen, while men, unless they have a female to link
with, cannot link with a single other man. Thus, when women
approach men to gentle them or capture them, a link of such
numbers or at least something more than six or seven Aes Sedai,
is required to be assured of the capture and in overpowering the
man.
